# Text Basics

This is the start of everything in markdown language. Good and old **plaintext**.

---
> Tip: When you see a block like this:
```
Example of a block with text
``` 
> Think in this as the "source code" of the .md, and right below it will be the rendered text.

**That said, lets start!**

---

## Tips

Writing plaintext in Markdown is pretty simple:

```
This is a text example, plaintext only.
```

This is a text example, plaintext only.

Now lets make a topic list:

```
- First
- Second
- Third
```

- First
- Second
- Third

We can make a ordered list too:

```
1. First
2. Second
3. Third
```

1. First
2. Second
3. Third

Something we can do in our markdown files are **titles**, there are some types, but the most common are:

```
# H1
## H2
### H3
```

# H1
## H2
### H3

> When dealing with titles, you need to keep the space between `#` and your text, otherwise it will not work.

We can also make some block text:

```
> This is a block text example
```

> This is a block text example

> The space between `>` and your text also need to be kept here.

It's possible to nest text blocs:

```
> Bigger block
>> Smaller block
```

> Bigger block
>> Smaller block

Its possible to do a checklist with Markdown:
 
```
- [x] Task 1
- [ ] Task 2
    - [x] Sub-task 1
    - [ ] Sub-task 2
```

- [x] Task 1
- [ ] Task 2
    - [x] Sub-task 1
    - [ ] Sub-task 2

> Note: Some markdown editors may not render checklists!

It's also possible to place emojis in Markdown texts in a different way (not only copying and pasting):
```
:joy:
```
:joy:

> Note: Emojis are also not rendered by some markdown editors!

Combining all of these plaintext foundations already grants to us some really cool looking text!

## Example: To-Do list
Let's write a cool to-do list using all we learned from this basic tutorial:

---

```
# To-do list
## Final objective
Become a Markdown master!

## Pre-requesites
- Typing skills
- Text editor
- Free time

## Roadmap
1. Text and effects
2. Links and public APIs
3. Charts, Images and graphs.

## Checklist
- [x] Text
    - [ ] Effects
- [ ] Links and Public APIs
- [ ] Charts, Images and Graphs

> On going progress!
```

# To-do list
## Final objective
Become a Markdown master!

## Pre-requesites
- Typing skills
- Text editor
- Free time

## Roadmap
1. Text and effects
2. Links and public APIs
3. Charts, Images and graphs.

## Checklist
- [x] Text
    - [ ] Effects
- [ ] Links and Public APIs
- [ ] Charts, Images and Graphs

> On going progress!

