# Basic Text Effects

Okay, we learned how to write plaintext in our .md files, but how can we style it a little bit?

That's what we'll learn in this tutorial!

---

## Tips

Lets start adding some life to our text, like some **bold** or *italic*?

```
This is a example of **bold** effect and *italic* effect, and this is a text **_both bold and italic_**
```
This is a example of **bold** effect and *italic* effect, and this is a text **_both bold and italic_**

But there are more text effects:

```
- **Bold**
- *Italic*
- <u>Underlined</u>
- ~~strikethrough text~~
```

- **Bold**
- *Italic*
- <u>Underlined</u>
- ~~strikethrough text~~

For those who would like to write some maths in markdown you can write subscripts and superscripts:

```
Sub<sub>scri</sub>pt<br>
Su<sup>per</sup>script
```

Sub<sub>scri</sub>pt<br>
Su<sup>per</sup>script

> Have you noticed that we use somethings like HTML tags inside our Markdown text to make some effects? This is because Markdown has a cool integration with HTML that we will explore during the Intermediate tutorial

We can also make a custom styling to highlight some words:

```
This is a example of `highlighted` word
```

This is a example of `highlighted` word.

We can force the line that comes with `#` or `##` titles too:
```
---
```

---

> Use this to organize better your text structure!

> We can style more than that using some HTML/CSS features, but we will cover that at Intermediate phase.

Let's put that in action enhancing the text_basics example!

## Example: Enhanced To-do List

# To-do list
## Final objective
Become a `Markdown` master!

## Pre-requesites
- **Typing skills**
- *Text editor*
- ~~Free time~~

## Roadmap
1. Text and effects
2. Links and public APIs
3. Charts, Images and graphs.

## Checklist
- [x] ~~Text~~
    - [ ] Effects
- [ ] Links and Public APIs
- [ ] Charts, Images and Graphs

> <sub>On going progress!</sub>